README.md, before:

# kottans-frontend

## Stage 0.

### General

#### 0. Git and GitHub

Working with Git was new to me. VSC provides many opportunities for project control. Allows you to follow the project step by step. If necessary - undo changes and many more.

<details><summary>Screenshots</summary>

![Git1](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/109612439/182105312-322e6147-2dee-489e-a35f-1ac0c3fb59b4.jpg)
![Git2](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/109612439/182105324-c1693a36-50ed-45af-a15b-751d3673cb1e.jpg)
![learngitbranching1](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/109612439/182105327-66da5863-999d-4a0e-b838-f96b8b7c7a33.jpg)
![learngitbranching2](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/109612439/182105329-d2283a83-aaa7-4577-b35f-5e98ddb602da.jpg)

</details>

#### 1. Linux, Command Line, HTTP Tools

In this task I learned the basic Linux commands and learned information about HTTP protocol. Most of the command I learned when I worked with Git. Learn about the updated HTTP protocol HTTP/1.1. From its new mines there are parallels and permanent connections. They increase client server service speed. HTTP - a protocol that every web developer should know!=)))

<details><summary>Screenshots</summary>

![Screen1](/task_linux_cli/Screen1.jpg)
![Screen2](/task_linux_cli/Screen2.jpg)
![Screen3](/task_linux_cli/Screen3.jpg)
![Screen4](/task_linux_cli/Screen4.jpg)

</details>

#### 2. GitHub and Collaboration

GitHub provides many tools to work together on a project. Working with remote repositories was new to me and at the same time exciting.

<details><summary>Screenshots</summary>

![GitWeek3](/task_git_collaboration/GitWeek3.jpg)
![GitWeek4](/task_git_collaboration/GitWeek4.jpg)
![learngitbranching1](/task_git_collaboration/learngitbranching1.jpg)
![learngitbranching2](/task_git_collaboration/learngitbranching2.jpg)

</details>

### Front-End Basics

#### 3. Intro to HTML & CSS

In this task I reviewed the basic elements of HTML and CSS. I was familiar with the basic rules, but some became new to me.
Learned how the **_box-sizing_** works. Learned how **_margin collapse_** happens. This knowledge will be useful when working with CSS-styles.

<details><summary>Screenshots</summary>

![Codecademy](/task_html_css_intro/Codecademy.jpg)
![Coursera_HTML_W1](/task_html_css_intro/Coursera_HTML_W1.jpg)
![Coursera_HTML_W2](/task_html_css_intro/Coursera_HTML_W2.jpg)

</details>

#### 4. Responsive Web Design

Got acquainted with the tools for creating adaptive design sites. In the past, these games were held, so it was not new. **_Grid_** and **_Flex_** offer a lot of opportunities to host content.

<details><summary>Screenshots</summary>

![Flexbox_Froggy](/task_responsive_web_design/Flexbox_Froggy.jpg)
![GridGarden](/task_responsive_web_design/GridGarden.jpg)

</details>

#### 5. HTML & CSS Practice

My [DEMO](https://olexiydobroskok.github.io/app__Popup/) | [CodeBase](https://github.com/OlexiyDobroskok/app__Popup/)

In this assignment, I learned how to apply my knowledge of HTML and CSS to create pop-up menu.
New to me was the use of checkboxes to hide menu items.
Learned the rules of alt attributes.
The reviewer helped to pay attention to some details, which helped make the code valid,thank you.

#### 6. JavaScript Basics

The topic is very big. Some of the basics I recently reviewed, so the first few topics didn't cause any difficulty. The last topic, **Algorithm Scripting Challenges**, did not. Going through it, I realized that I'm only a few steps away from the start, but the basic resource for moving forward is already there.

> New for me were such methods as:

    - Array.filter();
    - Array.map();
    - Array.reduce();
    - Array.slice();
    - Array.splice();
    - Object.hasOwnProperty();
    - String.split();
    - String.replace();

Many of these methods will be very useful in the future.

<details><summary>Screenshots</summary>

![coursera_JS_Basic](/task_js_basics/coursera_JS_Basic.png)
![FreeCodeCamp_JS-Basic](/task_js_basics/FreeCodeCamp_JS-Basic.png)
![FreeCodeCamp_Basik-Data](/task_js_basics/FreeCodeCamp_Basik-Data.png)
![FreeCodeCamp_Basik-Scripting](/task_js_basics/FreeCodeCamp_Basik-Scripting.png)
![FreeCodeCamp_ES6](/task_js_basics/FreeCodeCamp_ES6.png)
![FreeCodeCamp_Functional-Programming](/task_js_basics/FreeCodeCamp_Functional-Programming.png)
![FreeCodeCamp_Intermediate_Algorithm](/task_js_basics/FreeCodeCamp_Intermediate_Algorithm.png)

</details>

#### 7. Document Object Model

My [DEMO](https://olexiydobroskok.github.io/JS__DOM/) | [CodeBase](https://github.com/OlexiyDobroskok/JS__DOM)

In the practical task, I learned how to create elements in the DOM-tree , learned about event delegation.
The main difficulty was the optimization of the code, I got confused with the destructuring of the array, but the reviewer helped me cope with this.

I really liked the lectures on coursera. The event listener adds so many possibilities for interesting ideas on the site. Let's do it! =))

**Algorithm Scripting Challenges** still a difficult task, some I completed by myself, but in some, I had to look at the prompts, as experience is still not enough. But I remembered the school curriculum. For the future, take the lens method _Array.prototype.every()_

<details><summary>Screenshots</summary>

![Coursera_DOM](/task_js_dom/Coursera_DOM.png)
![FreeCode_EAS_taskDOM](/task_js_dom/FreeCode_EAS_taskDOM.png)

</details>

#### 9. Object Oriented JS

My [DEMO](https://olexiydobroskok.github.io/Frogger__Game/) | [CodeBase](https://github.com/OlexiyDobroskok/Frogger__Game) | [CODEWARS](https://www.codewars.com/users/Netfix)

It was interesting to feel like a game developer. That was my first time with the OOP. Learned how to inherit prototypes and create templates.

<details><summary>Screenshots</summary>

![codewars](/task_js_oop/codewars.png)

</details>

Commit message:

Added new post "Building a Tiny JS World"

README.md, after:

# kottans-frontend

## Stage 0.

### General

#### 0. Git and GitHub

Working with Git was new to me. VSC provides many opportunities for project control. Allows you to follow the project step by step. If necessary - undo changes and many more.

<details><summary>Screenshots</summary>

![Git1](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/109612439/182105312-322e6147-2dee-489e-a35f-1ac0c3fb59b4.jpg)
![Git2](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/109612439/182105324-c1693a36-50ed-45af-a15b-751d3673cb1e.jpg)
![learngitbranching1](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/109612439/182105327-66da5863-999d-4a0e-b838-f96b8b7c7a33.jpg)
![learngitbranching2](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/109612439/182105329-d2283a83-aaa7-4577-b35f-5e98ddb602da.jpg)

</details>

#### 1. Linux, Command Line, HTTP Tools

In this task I learned the basic Linux commands and learned information about HTTP protocol. Most of the command I learned when I worked with Git. Learn about the updated HTTP protocol HTTP/1.1. From its new mines there are parallels and permanent connections. They increase client server service speed. HTTP - a protocol that every web developer should know!=)))

<details><summary>Screenshots</summary>

![Screen1](/task_linux_cli/Screen1.jpg)
![Screen2](/task_linux_cli/Screen2.jpg)
![Screen3](/task_linux_cli/Screen3.jpg)
![Screen4](/task_linux_cli/Screen4.jpg)

</details>

#### 2. GitHub and Collaboration

GitHub provides many tools to work together on a project. Working with remote repositories was new to me and at the same time exciting.

<details><summary>Screenshots</summary>

![GitWeek3](/task_git_collaboration/GitWeek3.jpg)
![GitWeek4](/task_git_collaboration/GitWeek4.jpg)
![learngitbranching1](/task_git_collaboration/learngitbranching1.jpg)
![learngitbranching2](/task_git_collaboration/learngitbranching2.jpg)

</details>

### Front-End Basics

#### 3. Intro to HTML & CSS

In this task I reviewed the basic elements of HTML and CSS. I was familiar with the basic rules, but some became new to me.
Learned how the **_box-sizing_** works. Learned how **_margin collapse_** happens. This knowledge will be useful when working with CSS-styles.

<details><summary>Screenshots</summary>

![Codecademy](/task_html_css_intro/Codecademy.jpg)
![Coursera_HTML_W1](/task_html_css_intro/Coursera_HTML_W1.jpg)
![Coursera_HTML_W2](/task_html_css_intro/Coursera_HTML_W2.jpg)

</details>

#### 4. Responsive Web Design

Got acquainted with the tools for creating adaptive design sites. In the past, these games were held, so it was not new. **_Grid_** and **_Flex_** offer a lot of opportunities to host content.

<details><summary>Screenshots</summary>

![Flexbox_Froggy](/task_responsive_web_design/Flexbox_Froggy.jpg)
![GridGarden](/task_responsive_web_design/GridGarden.jpg)

</details>

#### 5. HTML & CSS Practice

My [DEMO](https://olexiydobroskok.github.io/app__Popup/) | [CodeBase](https://github.com/OlexiyDobroskok/app__Popup/)

In this assignment, I learned how to apply my knowledge of HTML and CSS to create pop-up menu.
New to me was the use of checkboxes to hide menu items.
Learned the rules of alt attributes.
The reviewer helped to pay attention to some details, which helped make the code valid,thank you.

#### 6. JavaScript Basics

The topic is very big. Some of the basics I recently reviewed, so the first few topics didn't cause any difficulty. The last topic, **Algorithm Scripting Challenges**, did not. Going through it, I realized that I'm only a few steps away from the start, but the basic resource for moving forward is already there.

> New for me were such methods as:

    - Array.filter();
    - Array.map();
    - Array.reduce();
    - Array.slice();
    - Array.splice();
    - Object.hasOwnProperty();
    - String.split();
    - String.replace();

Many of these methods will be very useful in the future.

<details><summary>Screenshots</summary>

![coursera_JS_Basic](/task_js_basics/coursera_JS_Basic.png)
![FreeCodeCamp_JS-Basic](/task_js_basics/FreeCodeCamp_JS-Basic.png)
![FreeCodeCamp_Basik-Data](/task_js_basics/FreeCodeCamp_Basik-Data.png)
![FreeCodeCamp_Basik-Scripting](/task_js_basics/FreeCodeCamp_Basik-Scripting.png)
![FreeCodeCamp_ES6](/task_js_basics/FreeCodeCamp_ES6.png)
![FreeCodeCamp_Functional-Programming](/task_js_basics/FreeCodeCamp_Functional-Programming.png)
![FreeCodeCamp_Intermediate_Algorithm](/task_js_basics/FreeCodeCamp_Intermediate_Algorithm.png)

</details>

#### 7. Document Object Model

My [DEMO](https://olexiydobroskok.github.io/JS__DOM/) | [CodeBase](https://github.com/OlexiyDobroskok/JS__DOM)

In the practical task, I learned how to create elements in the DOM-tree , learned about event delegation.
The main difficulty was the optimization of the code, I got confused with the destructuring of the array, but the reviewer helped me cope with this.

I really liked the lectures on coursera. The event listener adds so many possibilities for interesting ideas on the site. Let's do it! =))

**Algorithm Scripting Challenges** still a difficult task, some I completed by myself, but in some, I had to look at the prompts, as experience is still not enough. But I remembered the school curriculum. For the future, take the lens method _Array.prototype.every()_

<details><summary>Screenshots</summary>

![Coursera_DOM](/task_js_dom/Coursera_DOM.png)
![FreeCode_EAS_taskDOM](/task_js_dom/FreeCode_EAS_taskDOM.png)

</details>

#### 8. Building a Tiny JS World (pre-OOP)

My [DEMO](https://olexiydobroskok.github.io/a-tiny-JS-world/) [CodeBase](https://github.com/OlexiyDobroskok/a-tiny-JS-world/tree/master)

Not very difficult task. The first steps of OOP, practiced with the methods of arrays. Got good recommendations for writing the method of array.

#### 9. Object Oriented JS

My [DEMO](https://olexiydobroskok.github.io/Frogger__Game/) | [CodeBase](https://github.com/OlexiyDobroskok/Frogger__Game) | [CODEWARS](https://www.codewars.com/users/Netfix)

It was interesting to feel like a game developer. That was my first time with the OOP. Learned how to inherit prototypes and create templates.

<details><summary>Screenshots</summary>

![codewars](/task_js_oop/codewars.png)

</details>
